# Countersurveillance DiscoTechs/Wave Farm Dead Drop
<b>What is a DiscoTech?</b><br>
“DiscoTech” is short for “Discovering Technology.” It is is a term coined by the Detroit Digital Justice Coalition which defines a replicable model for a multimedia, mobile neighborhood workshop fair.

At a Discotech, participants learn more about the impact and possibilities of technology within our communities and take part in fun, interactive, and media-based workshops. Discotech workshops are designed to demystify technology and create a space where we can inform and engage communities. A Discotech utilizes the unique skills and expertise within each community and morphs to adapt to changing needs. [See this "How To Discotech" Zine: https://detroitcommunitytech.org/system/tdf/librarypdfs/how-to-discotech.pdf?file=1&type=node&id=14&force=]<br>

<b>What happens at Countersurveillance DiscoTechs?</b><br>
At countersurveillance DiscoTechs, we focus on creating welcoming spaces where a wide range of people (not just techies and activists) feel welcome exploring, learning about, and sharing each others’ experiences with surveillance. We invite community organizations, technologists, developers, and designers to come to the DiscoTechs to sprint/hack on projects together. There are speakers and workshops. We dive in deep to understand surveillance tools, systems, and histories. We also get hands-on with tools and approaches that can strengthen our communities’ privacy, safety, and security. We break down structural inequality in surveillance regimes that disproportionately target people of color, working people, immigrants, and activists. Our goals are to understand surveillance in everyday life, and to work hands-on with community-based organizations to strengthen countersurveillance strategies and tools.<br>

The MIT Codesign Studio team organized, hosted, participated in, and supported several countersurveillance DiscoTechs and hackathons during the spring of 2014. At the DiscoTech at MIT, I gave a presentation on the SURVANT-Cryp project and participated in a variety of countersurveillance workshops. At this event I was introduced to <a href="http://vojo.co">Vojo</a>, a platform that allows people to post stories from inexpensive mobile phones via voice calls, SMS, and MMS. Professor Sasha Costanza-Chock led DiscoTech attendees around the MIT campus, where we captured images of surveillance cameras and then posted them to Vojo (http://vojo.co/en/discotech). This participatory walking and mapping exercise underscored the ubiquitousness of the Cambridge surveillance apparatus. The group worked together to generate a map, which undeniably changed our collective perspective of the spaces around campus. Inspired by the spirit of this event I decided to create a <b>USB dead drop</b> for Wave Farm (a non-profit arts organization dedicated to sound + transmission) during my residency there in the summer of 2014. A dead drop or "dead letter box" is a method of espionage tradecraft used to pass sensitive items or information between two individuals using a secret location. In recent years, artists like Aram Bartholl have reframed dead drops as alternative file sharing networks—popularizing them to an increasingly tech-savvy public. USB dead drops are typically embedded into walls, buildings, or curbs. My drop was embedded into a tree on the Wave Farm campus: https://wavefarm.org/ta/works/21dhmh. Since 2014, I have experimented with different kinds of dead drops in new locations. Click <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/kc6b5zpzhln7fqy/AADQ0w_EPP6USS6ZcVdYuh2Ya?dl=0">here</a> for images.<br>

I am sharing this project on GitHub in the spirit of distribution and DIWO culture.
